Hello, my name is Raehan Nasir Ahmed and this is my project for CS210 - Introduction to Data Science. 

My poject is about my music interests and listening statistics, namely; my favourtite artists, my favourtite songs, the language of music I listen to most and the days when i listen to music the most. I believe that I listen to music more on the weekends than weekdays because I feel like I have more time to relax on the weekends. I love listening to music alot whether I am studying, playing games or doing nothing at all which is why I chose to do this project. My hypothesis is that I listen to music more on the weekends and I focused my data analysis around this to reach a conclusion in the end. 

I got my data from requesting my personal information in the spotify application which they sent to me via email in the following week. The data consisted of some account details, my playlists and streaming history from approximately the past year. I used the pandas library in python to read the json files and stored the data by creating a database in pandas.Each file was read into a single database and then I used the concat method to merge the two databases into a single comprehensive one. This database consisted mainly of my streaming history. I checked this data for missing values and punctuation but I did not have to clean it because it was already in a very good state. 

I then began my analysis of the data. I began by grouping the data by artist name and time played so that I could find the artists that I listened to the most. Since there were many artists in the list, I arranged this data in descending order and used the first 5 values and used the matplotlib library to plot them in a bar graph to better visualise my findings. I found out that the artist that i listened to the most was 'Anuv Jain' who is an Indian singer very popular in Pakistan as well because of the similarity in Hindu and Urdu languages. I listened to 'Anuv Jain' almost 4 times more than any other artist and I believe the reason is his soothing voice and the heart warmingly beautiful lyrics in his songs. 

I then proceeded to group the song names together with the time played so that I could find the song I listened to the most. I selected the top 10 songs and again printed this data in the form of a bar chat for better readability. All the 10 songs were very close but I saw that I had listened to two versions of a song 'Lost my pieces' more than any other song. This is an instrumental song which I usually only listen to while im performing pther tasks, mostly studying. I found a few songs by 'Anuv Jain' there as well in the top 10 which made sense as he did come out to be the artist I had listened to the most. 7 of these 10 songs were Urdu songs which also told me that I like listening to urdu songs more than any other language. Ofcourse we would need an in depth analysis to draw a justifiable conclusion. 

I then decided to calculate the total listening time on weekends and weekdays which was my main hypothesis. I used the dates and times given to me in the dataset to classify each instance of played songs into a weekday category or weekend category. I achieved this using the 'to_datetime' method from the datetime library in python. I then proceeded to sum the weekday and weekend values and displayed the daily listenig time in a line chart. At first glance, the line chart showed evidence that I listened to more music on weekdays but it was impossible to draw a conclusion using this. I deicded to plot a bar chart using the sum of all weekday and weekend values to see better results. The total time of music listened to on weekdays turned out to be almost 3 times as much as that on weekends.

 Then it occured to me that I could not use this to draw a conclusion about my hypothesis as the number of days in weekdays is more than the number of days on weekends. This realisation led me to calculate the average listening time on a weekday and on a weekend. I plotted this data using a bar chart for better visualisation of the results. The bar chart showed evidence that I listened to more more on an average weekday as compared to an average weekend. This was still not enough for me to draw a conclusion on my hypothesis. I then imported 'mannwhitneyu' from 'scipy.stats' to calculate the p-value from my weekday and weekend data. Since this value was calculated to be less than  alpha (0.05), we rejected the null hypothesis and reached a fitting conclusion. 

 This project told me alot about my music interests and the amount of time I spend listening to music daily. I learned about my love for cultural music and that I might be a bit dependant on listening to music while studying because of how much I listened to 'Lost my pieces'. In this project I could have gathered more data with even more details. In the future, I plan to gather much more data with alot of different statistics and variation so that I can draw multiple conclusions about myself. 



